As you work through all the courses in this program, you'll notice that all the videos for this program including the one for this very lesson use an automated voice. 

You may wonder why we do this. We thought it would be nice to explain our reasons and tell you about this feature of the program.

Let's see how the course content are created. The content of all the courses are created given two files. One text file that is in R Markdown format that contains the content of each lesson and the slides created in Google Slides. Everything else including the videos, the narration of the videos, and quizzes are created from these two files. You will soon learn about Google Slides (if you don't already know about) and later on will learn about writing reports in R Markdown. 

The videos are compiled and uploaded on Youtube using an automated process and packages all in R. The package we use is called Ari created by Sean Kross that takes text and slides and converts them into a video lecture. Ari uses Amazon Polly that converts text to voice. Whenever we change the text file or edit the slides we can recreated the video in a couple of minutes. Everything is done in R. We hope that, by the end of this program, you will be able to do this on your own.

Why did we choose this approach instead of creating each piece of a lesson separately? Well, first, this process makes it a lot easier for us to maintain and update the courses. If you report an issue or find a mistake with a lesson, all we need to do is to change these two files and recreate the courses again. Therefore, we will have a more efficient way of maintaining the course content and updating it.

Second, by using this process we have made our instruction more accessible. Since videos have transcripts and transcripts have voice over, the content is accessible by those of us who have disabilities. For everyone else, you can have a choice of reading versus listening versus watching the content as you wish.

Third, a cool feature of using Amazon Polly is that you can change the voice to any voice you want. You can even have voice over for a text written in another language. An advantage of this approach is that we can translate the text of the lectures to most languages using Google Translate (again we can do this in R) and have Ari and Amazon Polly do the magic and read the text in Spanish or Korean. This makes our program accessible by millions and millions of people around the world. So hopefully you don't mind that the videos are not with human voice. We thought the benefits that we talked above outweighs the cost of not having human voices.