In data science and computer-related work in general, it is common to ask for help multiple times per day. Sometimes we ask our colleagues for help, other times we ask for help from an established figure in the field via a book they wrote. But most frequently, we search the web. It is important to realize that other people might have run into the same problem or question we have and that their might be an answer that was publicly shared. In complicated scenarios, maybe others have documented a similar problem to the one you have and that information can be useful for figuring out the answer to yours. Many people contribute their questions and answers freely for others to read through via a wide variety of websites and public forums. That is why we search the web, to find those answers.

So how do we search the web? Web search engine is the term that denotes software that is designed to find the most relevant answers to our question, or query. The most common web search engine is Google, which by the way is how the company started before it became so ubiquitous in our lives. We can access Google via www.google.com where you will see a simple text box and a button called Google search.

On the search box, as you start typing your question you will see suggestions based on what you have written so far. This is called Google auto-complete. Here is an example where Google suggests a few common searches that start with "how to find help in". The auto-complete feature can be useful because it help us refine our search query which will lead to more relevant results and answers. If we select "how to find help in r" and then click on the Google search button, we will get a list of websites that are most related to our question as shown below.

Google highlights some of our key terms from our query in the search results list. For example, the word help is bolded twice on the first link title "R: Getting Help with R".We will cover different ways of finding help, some of which are R-specific and others that are general. It is fair to argue that data scientists are good at searching the web with Google, but also at framing questions and helping others help them. Each search result includes a short title, the web link, a short extract from the website, and some of our search terms highlighted. Using this information we have to decide if our search query was specific enough. For example, we could have searched "how to get help". Google search had no way of knowing that we had an R question which is why the results are general.

Google search recognizes in this case that the question was too broad, so it lists suggestions based on what other people have asked. A useful skill for a data scientist is to be efficient at searching the web. The best way to get a response to your question is to be able to boil it down to relatively few words. Less is usually better...it's also faster to type too! At this point you probably have tried a few solutions yourself. Here are some of the things to do. First, use as few words as possible while still being specific. For example, if you have a problem reading a file-type in R. A good starting query is 'reading text in R.' this should work. Another benefit to this is that sometimes you may not know how to correctly phrase your question. Using just a few words and then refining your subsequent searches might be more productive than figuring out exactly what you want to search for before hand. Second, sometimes it helps when you use certain terms that are more commonly associated with certain actions in the community. For instance, replacing the word reading with the word loading in the above example may help refine your results. Third, know your forums. In some cases, even though help exists, googling might not prove fruitful. In those scenarios, it is helpful if you search for certain keywords in those sites. Finally, read all the comments. Sometimes someone has tried the suggested answer and found a variation which could be more relevant to you that works, but it may not be the first answer you see.